# [ Day 7: Camel Cards ](https://adventofcode.com/2023/day/7)

--- Day 7: Camel Cards ---Your all-expenses-paid trip turns out to be a one-way, five-minute ride in anairship. (At least it's acoolairship!) It drops you off at the edge of a vast desert and descends back to Island Island."Did you bring the parts?"You turn around to see an Elf completely covered in white clothing, wearing goggles, and riding a largecamel."Did you bring the parts?" she asks again, louder this time. You aren't sure what parts she's looking for; you're here to figure out why the sand stopped."The parts! For the sand, yes! Come with me; I will show you." She beckons you onto the camel.After riding a bit across the sands of Desert Island, you can see what look like very large rocks covering half of the horizon. The Elf explains that the rocks are all along the part of Desert Island that is directly above Island Island, making it hard to even get there. Normally, they use big machines to move the rocks and filter the sand, but the machines have broken down because Desert Island recently stopped receiving thepartsthey need to fix the machines.You've already assumed it'll be your job to figure out why the parts stopped when she asks if you can help. You agree automatically.Because the journey will take a few days, she offers to teach you the game ofCamel Cards. Camel Cards is sort of similar topokerexcept it's designed to be easier to play while riding a camel.In Camel Cards, you get a list ofhands, and your goal is to order them based on thestrengthof each hand. A hand consists offive cardslabeled one ofA,K,Q,J,T,9,8,7,6,5,4,3, or2. The relative strength of each card follows this order, whereAis the highest and2is the lowest.Every hand is exactly onetype. From strongest to weakest, they are:Five of a kind, where all five cards have the same label:AAAAAFour of a kind, where four cards have the same label and one card has a different label:AA8AAFull house, where three cards have the same label, and the remaining two cards share a different label:23332Three of a kind, where three cards have the same label, and the remaining two cards are each different from any other card in the hand:TTT98Two pair, where two cards share one label, two other cards share a second label, and the remaining card has a third label:23432One pair, where two cards share one label, and the other three cards have a different label from the pair and each other:A23A4High card, where all cards' labels are distinct:23456Hands are primarily ordered based on type; for example, everyfull houseis stronger than anythree of a kind.If two hands have the same type, a second ordering rule takes effect. Start by comparing thefirst card in each hand. If these cards are different, the hand with the stronger first card is considered stronger. If the first card in each hand have thesame label, however, then move on to considering thesecond card in each hand. If they differ, the hand with the higher second card wins; otherwise, continue with the third card in each hand, then the fourth, then the fifth.So,33332and2AAAAare bothfour of a kindhands, but33332is stronger because its first card is stronger. Similarly,77888and77788are both afull house, but77888is stronger because its third card is stronger (and both hands have the same first and second card).To play Camel Cards, you are given a list of hands and their correspondingbid(your puzzle input). For example:32T3K 765
T55J5 684
KK677 28
KTJJT 220
QQQJA 483This example shows five hands; each hand is followed by itsbidamount. Each hand wins an amount equal to its bid multiplied by itsrank, where the weakest hand gets rank 1, the second-weakest hand gets rank 2, and so on up to the strongest hand. Because there are five hands in this example, the strongest hand will have rank 5 and its bid will be multiplied by 5.So, the first step is to put the hands in order of strength:32T3Kis the onlyone pairand the other hands are all a stronger type, so it gets rank1.KK677andKTJJTare bothtwo pair. Their first cards both have the same label, but the second card ofKK677is stronger (KvsT), soKTJJTgets rank2andKK677gets rank3.T55J5andQQQJAare boththree of a kind.QQQJAhas a stronger first card, so it gets rank5andT55J5gets rank4.Now, you can determine the total winnings of this set of hands by adding up the result of multiplying each hand's bid with its rank (765* 1 +220* 2 +28* 3 +684* 4 +483* 5). So thetotal winningsin this example are6440.Find the rank of every hand in your set.What are the total winnings?